---
layout: post
title:  "Importance of Scientific Knowledge for Youth"
author: AstromuonKuki
categories: [ Astronomy ]
image: ../assets/images/posts/ImportanceOfScienceEducation.jpg
tags: [ technology, astronomy, aerospace, engineering, Astrophysics, Science, space ]
---
The present era is the era of science. Science has undoubtedly done a great service to mankind. Man, a rational being, has been curious to explore mysteries of nature and this led to many discoveries being made in various part of the world. But he is never satisfied with the acquired knowledge and is always keen to unravelled mysteries of the universe. He has conquered the land and air. His incredible lust for knowledge has revolutionized human life and raised the standard of life.He was able to invent innumerable ways of making his life comfortable and happy. Every sphere of life has been revolutionized by science. Science asks numerous questions, would it be possible to walk through walls? To build starship that can travel faster than the speed of light? To read other people's minds? To become invisible? To move objects with the power of our minds?To transport our bodies instantly through outer space? Where did the universe come from,and where is it going?Did the universe have a beginning,and if so,where is it going?Did the universe have a beginning,and if so,what happened before then?What is the nature of time?Will it ever come to an end? and so on... 

Getting a science education in the 21st century can be very beneficial to children of all ages. Science is what makes up the world and the only way you would be able to know that would be by getting a real education in the studies of science. There are many reasons in why getting an education in science can be important and three of them are that it makes you smarter, it gives you ability to think out of the box, and getting a proper education in science let you understands almost everything in cosmos from atom to universe. Everybody goes to school to extend their knowledge, but studying science helps youths understand the world. To emphasize, science can simply make you more intelligent. In addition to that, learning science can also inform mankind of all ages about what is going on in the world. 
Our history reveals that scientific revolutions come in waves,often stimulated by advances in physics.In the nineteenth century,the first wave of science and technology was made possible by physicists who created the theory of mechanics and thermodynamics.This enabled engineers to produce the steam engine,leading to the locomotive and the industrial revolution.
In the twentieth century,the second wave was spearheaded by physicists who mastered the laws of electricity and magnetism,which in turn ushered in the electric age.This made possible the electrification of our cities with the advent of dynamos,generators,TV,radio,and radar.The second wave gave birth to the modern space program,which took us to the moon.
In the twenty-first century,the third wave of science has been expressed in high tech,spearheaded by the quantum physicists who invented the transistor and the laser.This made possible the supercomputer,the internet,modern telecommunications and GPS. In future,we will have to exploit the fourth wave of science,which consists of artificial intelligence,nanotechnology,and biotechnology.The goal of terraform Mars exceeds our capability today,but the technologies of the twenty-second century will allow us to turn this bleak,frozen desert into a habitable world.
Think back 150 years to those technological advances that were declared "impossible" by scientists at the time and that have now become part of our everyday lives. Jules Verne wrote a novel in 1863, Paris in the Twentieth Century, which was locked away and forgotten for over a century until it was accidentally discovered by his great-grandson and published for the first time in 1994. In it Verne predicted what Paris might look like in the year 1960. His novel was filled with technology that was clearly considered impossible in the nineteenth century, including fax machines, a world-wide communications network, glass skyscrapers, gas-powered automobiles, and high-speed elevated trains.
Lord Kelvin, perhaps the most prominent physicist of the Victorian era (he is buried next to Isaac Newton in Westminster Abbey), declared that "heavier than air" devices such as the airplane were impossible. He thought X-rays were a hoax and that radio had no future. Lord Rutherford, who discovered the nucleus of the atom, dismissed the possibility of building an atomic bomb, comparing it to "moonshine." Chemists of the nineteenth century declared the search for the philosopher's stone, a fabled substance that can turn lead into gold, a scientific dead end. Nineteenth-century chemistry was based on the fundamental immutability of the elements, like lead. Yet with today's atom smashers, we can, in principle, turn lead atoms into gold. Think how fantastic today's televisions, computers, and Internet would have seemed at the turn of the twentieth century. More recently, black holes were once considered to be science fiction. Einstein himself wrote a paper in 1939 that "proved" that black holes could never form. Yet today the Hubble Space Telescope and the Chandra X-ray telescope have revealed thousands of black holes in space.Not only that on April 10 2019,scientists have obtained the first image of a black hole, using Event Horizon Telescope observations of the center of the galaxy M87.
The reason that these technologies were deemed "impossibilities" is that the basic laws of physics and science were not known in the nineteenth century and the early part of the twentieth. Given the huge gaps in 
the understanding of science at the time, especially at the atomic level, it's no wonder such advances were considered impossible.
At the end of the nineteenth century, scientists decided that it was "impossible" for the Earth to be billions of years old. Lord Kelvin declared flatly that a molten Earth would cool down in 20 to 40 million years, contradicting the geologists and Darwinian biologists who claimed that the Earth might be billions of years old. The impossible was finally proven to be possible with the discovery of the nuclear force by Madame Curie and others, showing how the center of the Earth, heated by radioactive decay, could indeed be kept molten for billions of years.
We ignore the impossible at our peril. In the 1920s and 1930s Robert Goddard, the founder of modern rocketry, was the subject of intense criticism by those who thought that rockets could never travel in outer space. They sarcastically called his pursuit Goddard's Folly. In 1921 the editors of the New York Times railed against Dr. Goddard's work: "Professor Goddard does not know the relation between action and reaction and the need to have something better than a vacuum against which to react. He seems to lack the basic knowledge ladled out daily in high schools." Rockets were impossible, the editors huffed, because there was no air to push against in outer space. Sadly, one head of state did understand the implications of Goddard's "impossible" rockets-Adolf Hitler. During World War II, Germany's barrage of impossibly advanced V-2 rockets rained death and destruction on London, almost bringing it to its knees.
In the 1930s it was widely believed, even by Einstein, that an atomic bomb was "impossible." Physicists knew that there was a tremendous amount of energy locked deep inside the atom's nucleus, according to Einstein's equation E = mc2, but the energy released by a single nucleus was too insignificant to consider. But atomic physicist Leo Szilard remembered reading the 1914 H. G. Wells novel, The World Set Free, in which Wells predicted the development of the atomic bomb. In the book he stated that the secret of the atomic bomb would be solved by a physicist in 1933. By chance Szilard stumbled upon this book in 1932. Spurred on by the novel, in 1933, precisely as predicted by Wells some two decades earlier, he hit upon the idea of magnifying the power of a single atom via a chain reaction, so that the energy of splitting a single uranium nucleus could be magnified by many trillions. Szilard then set into motion a series of key experiments and secret negotiations between Einstein and President Franklin Roosevelt that would lead to the Manhattan Project, which built the atomic bomb.
Time and again we see that the study of the impossible has opened up entirely new vistas, pushing the boundaries of physics and chemistry and forcing scientists to redefine what they mean by "impossible." 
As Sir William Osier once said, "The philosophies of one age have become the absurdities of the next, and the foolishness of yesterday has become the wisdom of tomorrow."
Presently,humans transcends the boundaries of planet Earth.Nuclear weapons threaten the survival of humankind.Organisms are increasingly shaped by intelligent design rather than natural selection but in future intelligent design may becomes the basic principle of life and Homo sapiens could be replaced by humans.Many of us might think knowing science is  significant aspect for science students and youths.Nope!  Science is for everybody. It's not just for a few people in science or math, or for a select group of astronauts. That's our new frontier out there, and it's everybody's business to know about science especially youths. Youths have immersed potential to use science as a tool for the development of the society and mankind.To cut a long story short,one must be accustomed with science and technology. Science is the key to our future, and if you don't believe in science, then you're holding everybody back. 